# Pass / Set Flow

Category: Skill Development
Intensity: Low
Format: Rotate
Skills: Passing, Serving, Setting
Min Ppl: 3
Max Ppl: 5
Objective: Passing Reps, Setting Reps
Round Type: Time
Min Rounds: 3
Max Rounds: 5
Min Minutes per Round: 1
Max Minutes per Round: 2
Equipment: Bench
Framework: Flow Reps
Feedback: Pass Location, Set: Can the target hit a standing shot without hitting tape?
Initiation: Coach on Box, Player Serve
Winning Criteria: Development

Why:

The pass set flow is a cornerstone drill in my coaching arsenal and the goal is to get efficient and quality passing and setting reps with significantly more volume than otherwise possible by INCREASING the number of passing / setting reps relative to the number of jumps/swings . We minimizing the shagging time by having a target catch the set, and throw the ball back to the server, which establishes a flow / rhythm to the drill. 

Set Up:

One player is initiating with a serve over the net, one player is passing, one player is setting and one player is the target. Target's job is to keep the ball circulating back to the server.  With extra players the coach can also be removed from the serving.  8 or more total people can perform TWO flows (two groups of 4) , utilizing the court time efficiently. 

- Make sure to specify the server locations, and when running recurring group practices, rotate through all of the different [Serve Types](Serve%20Types%2015682649815e80c8adf0e0eed4e0f073.md)

Variations:

- Coach Roles:
    - Increase Challenge Level — Coach on box can take turns with the server, or replace the server,  initiating with a higher intensity serve (or lower intensity for newer players)
    - Replace the target: If there's an extra coach or parent,  it makes sense to remove the player from the target position, and give feedback from that spot, returning the player to develop vball skills.
- With higher level players, use the box to create overspeed conditions - training above the speed of the game
- Extra Players join the setter’s spot:
    - Two setters can switch in and out
- Incorporating Attacking (letting the players hit) - this increases intensity but also can have a big impact.
    - “Pass one, hit one”
        - still accomplishes our goal of INCREASING the number of passing / setting reps relative to the number of jumps/swings
        - Add a [Offensive Vision](Offensive%20Vision%2015682649815e80b28219f88ddab5bd10.md) focus to the attack WHENEVER POSSIBLE