# Milo’s Car Wash

Category: Live Gameplay
Intensity: moderate
Format: Wash
Min Ppl: 6
Max Ppl: 10
Objective: Situational
Round Type: Points, Time
Min Rounds: 1
Max Rounds: 3
Min Minutes per Round: 2
Max Minutes per Round: 10
Framework: Game-Like Training
Initiation: Coach Input
Winning Criteria: Points

milo's car wash is a drill that is competitive and for a minimum of six and maximum of 10 players.

The drill is set up with one team on the receiving side, one team serving, and one team off. Therefore the minimum number of players is six. With any less than 6, the wash format does not make sense..

The side out or receiving side always receives the first two balls. First ball is a serve and the second ball is a situational ball, input by the coach. 

The Third ball is a free ball to the team that won the second ball.

The scoring is on a big point system, where the team that scores two out of three of the balls gets a big point. If the team gets all three points they get to stay on the receiving side, otherwise the serving team goes to become the receiving team and the off team becomes the serving team.

 I like this drill because it gives the coach an opportunity to give feedback after a team rotates off the king side and before they serve or enter the drill again. 

List of possible situations for use as the “situational ball”:

- An example of this would be if the situation is “spread offense”, the coach would input a free ball in the first half of the court and the team would be required to attack onto or set the ball to the pin.
- Another example of a situational ball would be a blocker pulling off the net in defense. In this case, visual focus Would be emphasized by the coach mixing in very tight to the net sets that the blocker should stay on, with off the net sets that the blocker should peel on.
- Coach tosses ball into the net, players must set & attack off this